Add Strings concept (#712)
exercism/kotlin: concepts/strings/about.md

# About Strings

A [`string`][string] in Kotlin is an immutable sequence of Unicode characters.

[`Immutable`][immutable] means that any operation on a string must return a new string: the original string can never change.

[`Unicode`][unicode] means that most of the world's writing systems can be represented, but (in contrast to older languages such as C) there is no 1:1 mapping between characters and bytes.
This will be discussed further in the [`Chars`][chars] Concept.

A string is surrounded by double-quotes `" "`.

Some characters need escaping: `\'`, `\\`, plus the usual non-printing characters such as `\t` (tab) and `\n` (newline).

```kotlin

> val s = "Escape apostrophe \' and backslash \\."

Reviewer: `'` doesn't need to be escaped!

```kotlin
println("Escape apostrophe ' and backslash \\.")
// => Escape apostrophe ' and backslash \.
```

// Escape apostrophe ' and backslash \.
```

Raw strings use 3 double-quotes, and can contain arbitrary text (no need for escaping).
Multiline strings are also supported, including flexible handling of indents.

```kotlin
val multi = """I'm a
    |multi-line
    |string with special characters \ \t """

multi.trimMargin()  // delimiter defaults to | but can be specified
//I'm a
//multi-line
//string with special characters  \ \t 
```

Strings can be concatenated with `+`, but this is best limited to short and simple cases.
There are other and often better options.

## String templates

[`Templates`][templates] refers to what some other languages call "interpolation".

> if a dollar sign `$` is followed by an identifier or expression within a string, the _value_ is substituted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a string contains a dollar sign `$`, followed by an identifier, or contains braces (`{expression}`) surrounding an expression, those are substituted by respectively the value or the result of the expression.
```

```kotlin
val x = 42
val st = "x is $x, x squared is ${x * x}"
// x is 42, x squared is 1764
```

The braces `{ }` are needed around expressions when parsing would otherwise be ambiguous.

## String formatting

On the JVM platform (only), `String.format()` allows more precise formatting than string templates, with [syntax][formats] similar to the (_very old!_) [`printf`][printf] functions.

```kotlin
String.format("%s %.3f", "π ≈", 3.14159)
//π ≈ 3.142

> ```

Reviewer: Add 

````markdown
~~~exercism/advanced
// ...
~~~
```` 

Explaining in a few lines that Kotlin has different compile platforms with different capabilities.

Author: Added to the About, this section is removed completely from the Introduction (I'm sure the exercise won't need `format()`.

## String functions

Kotlin provides _many_ [`functions`][string-functions] to manipulate strings.

Mostly, these are [`extensions functions`][extensions] rather than members of the `String` class, though this has little effect on how we use them.

***Note:*** _Kotlin's rather complex [documentation][string-functions] pages hide extension functions in the default view.

> Be sure to click `Members and Extensions` to expand this section._

Reviewer: Use an `exercism/...` admonition for increased differentiating from the normal content.

`Members and Extension` is specific to certain IDEs, list them!

Author: > Use an exercism/... admonition

In the past, I've failed to make external links work within admonitions. My mistake, or is this an Exercism limitation?

> Members and Extension is specific to certain IDEs, list them!

Sorry, I don't understand this. I'm talking about web pages in Chrome and Firefox.

Author: OK, I found the [forum post](https://forum.exercism.org/t/link-references-in-special-blocks-admonitions-are-not-rendered/3803) on links in admonitions. I'll push that change a bit later.

I'm still confused about the Members an Extensions point.

Reviewer: Ignore my M&E comment :D

[formats]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/Formatter.html#summary
[printf]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printf
[stringbuilder]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/
[extensions]: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/extensions.html#extensions.md
[string-functions]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin/-string/
[chars]: https://exercism.org/tracks/kotlin/concepts/chars
[lists]: https://exercism.org/tracks/kotlin/concepts/lists
[templates]: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/strings.html#string-templates
[sb-append]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/#9100522%2FFunctions%2F-705004581
[sb-insert]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/#-132863384%2FFunctions%2F-705004581
[sb-deleteat]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/#-386007892%2FFunctions%2F-956074838
[sb-deleterange]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.text/-string-builder/#-1622040372%2FFunctions%2F-956074838
[buildstring]: https://kotlinlang.org/docs/java-to-kotlin-idioms-strings.html#build-a-string

> [jointostring]: https://kotlinlang.org/api/core/kotlin-stdlib/kotlin.collections/join-to-string.html

Reviewer: For ease of mainting, I prefer:

- reference-string or ref-string instead of string
- wiki-unicode instead of unicode
- web-formats instead of formats
- concept-chars instead of chars

It makes it easy to see the "type" of resource without finding the reference here.

Author: I made the changes here, and also in #711. First time I heard this suggestion, but I like it!

```kotlin
val x = 42
val st = "x is $x, x squared is {x * x}"
// x is 42, x squared is 1764
```

## String formatting

On the JVM platform (only), `String.format()` allows more precise formatting than string templates, with [syntax][web-formats] similar to the (_very old!_) [`printf`][wiki-printf] functions.

```kotlin
String.format("%s %.3f", "π ≈", 3.14159)
//π ≈ 3.142
```

~~~~exercism/advanced
Kotlin can be compiled to several different targets: the Java Virtual Machine, JavaScript, native binaries for Linux, Windows, Android and Apple, plus two variants of WebAssembly.

Essentially the same code can be used for each, but different capabilities in the target platforms mean some differences in which standard library functions are supported.

Exercism currently uses the JVM for testing.
~~~~

## String functions

Kotlin provides _many_ [`functions`][ref-string-functions] to manipulate strings.

Mostly, these are [`extensions functions`][ref-extensions] rather than members of the `String` class, though this has little effect on how we use them.

~~~~exercism/note
Kotlin's rather complex [documentation][ref-string-functions] pages hide extension functions in the default view.

> Be sure to click `Members and Extensions` to expand this section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At moment of writing this, the most valuable content is hidden in a tab named `Members and Extensions`.
Click it to expand this section and see all the members and extensions available on the `String` class.
```

Future-proofing it.
